Title: [WIP] Linux Foundation Certified System Administrator (LFCS)
Date: 2025-12-31
Category: Knowledge Base
Tags: linux, certification


# My favorite list in this Exam

### IO Redirection

I think this is the most command I often used but never understand correctly, LOL. Yes, it is `2>&1`. But no more, today I swear I will remember and understand it! So let's take an example:
```bash
./script.sh > output.txt 2>&1
```

`./script.sh` will give to output
```bash
bob@ubuntu-host ~ ✖ ./script.sh 
/home/bob
./script.sh: line 2: lss: command not found
```

This part `> output.txt`: can be understood as redirect `stdout` (file descriptor 1) into file `output.txt`

This part `2>&1`: can be understood as redirect `stderr` (file descriptor 2) into file descriptor 1 pointed to. At this time file descriptor 1 already getting redirected into `output.txt`, so file descriptor 2 will go together xD 

And order is important

- It must be `> output.txt 2>&1`. Example:
```bash
bob@ubuntu-host ~ ➜  ./script.sh > output.txt 2>&1

bob@ubuntu-host ~ ✖ cat output.txt 
/home/bob
./script.sh: line 2: lss: command not found
```
- If `2>&1 > asd.txt`: only stdout getting into file. Example:
```bash
bob@ubuntu-host ~ ➜  ./script.sh 2>&1 > asd.txt
./script.sh: line 2: lss: command not found

bob@ubuntu-host ~ ✖ cat asd.txt 
/home/bob
```

Shell Redirection Cheat sheet:

- **`> file 2>&1`** Redirects both **stdout** and **stderr** to a file (the most standard/compatible method).
- **`&> file`** Shorthand for the above (supported in **bash** and **zsh**).
- **`>> file 2>&1`** **Appends** both **stdout** and **stderr** to a file.
- **`2>/dev/null`** Discards error messages (**stderr**); keeps only the standard output.

Redirection Use Cases:

- **`./script.sh > output.txt 2>&1`** Captures everything (**logs + errors**) into a single file.
- **`./script.sh > /dev/null 2>&1`** **Total silence**; suppresses all output and error messages completely.
- **`./script.sh 2> error.txt`** Redirects **only the errors** to a file; the normal logs will still show up on your terminal.

And the last, we had fd2/fd1 so what is fd0? It is standard input (stdin). Example: `mysql database_name < backup.sql`

